When you're in nutritional ketosis where
your glucose is low and your ketones are
elevated and you're in the in the three
to 230 that that range, you can take a
very small dose of chemotherapy, even
less than half of what they would
normally give you. And boy, it just
blows the out of these tumor cells
because they're already vulnerable now.
You're putting them on on on a a life
support system.
>> That's right. By taking they're
starving.
>> They're starving and they're going to
die and they are dying. And then you
throw in a tiny amount of chemo and the
next thing you know it's history for
these tumor cells.
Hi everybody and welcome to another
episode of Ultra Life today. My name is
Kyle Drew meat eating tofuhating
nutritionist. So glad that you're
joining us. You know, we had a part one
conversation with Dr. Thomas Seaffreed,
professor of biology at Boston College,
and it was riveting and it was
technical. Uh, we decided to break that
episode up into two different episodes.
And what you're about to see is our part
two to our conversation with Dr.
Seaffrey. Now this one what I found is
that uh toward the end of the long
conversation that we had Dr. Dr. Seaff
freed became a lot more practical, a lot
more what can we do about it. Uh he
talks about therapeutic strategies but
also prevention strategies. He talks
about diet, he talks about exercise, he
talks about these antiparasite drugs
like fenbendazole, mi bendazol, etc.,
etc. This is well worth sending to your
friends who have an active diagnosis.
And I'm anxious for you to listen to
what we have. Let me tell you this.
Ultralife today is brought to you by
Ultra Botanica, makers of the super
absorbable highintensity curcumin you
can feel. It's called Ultraur. Also the
makers of the pathway system products. A
lot of folks are taking this who follow
the metabolic model of cancer. They are
taking this alongside some other things
that they've seen out and about on the
internet. Uh it is just a series of
nutritional supplements that help
nutritionally support the rebalancing of
metabolic pathways that are imbalanced
due to cancer and other diseases. It is
not a treatment. It is not a cure. It is
not even a prevention. There is no way
that the FDA needs to worry about what
we're saying about this. It is a series
of dietary supplements. Now, I do need
to say this. This is important. Just
because I just told you about the
pathway supplements as we're about to
move into Dr. Seaff Freed's
conversation, do not take that as Dr.
Seaff Freed's endorsement of these
products. He doesn't know about these
products. I don't want to imply in any
way that Dr. Seaffrey is saying, see
metabolic model, oh you guys with your
product. he doesn't know about these
products. And so, uh, please don't take
that as Dr. Seaff Freed's endorsement,
but we did want to attach that little
pitch alongside the conversation because
Dr. Seaff Freed's metabolic model is
what these uh pathway products are built
on. So, without further ado, here is
part two to our conversation with Dr.
Thomas Seaff Freed.
I remember years ago when I spoke to you
on on a radio show, the question was,
should everybody consider a ketogenic
diet or at least a primitive diet,
something that really limits glucose?
Whether or not we become ketoic
is a different question, but that was
the question then and that's the
question that I'll put to you now. Just
in your opinion, still on the prevention
side.
>> Yeah. Well, I think cancer is a very
preventable disease conceptually. In
practice, it's not
right because we are now our paleolithic
ancestors never had access to the highly
processed carbohydrates,
emotional stress, lack of exercise, poor
sleep. What was killing those folks was
injuries and infections. They had no
orthopedic surgeons or antibiotics, so
they were dying from injuries and
infection. They weren't dying from
cancer and cardiovascular disease,
>> right?
>> It's not it's not that they didn't live
long. Yeah. And a lot of times they
couldn't because they didn't have an
antibiotic, but those guys who who could
survive and we've we have we have tribes
in Africa where you can have old people
in the 80s and who have never never
succumbed to those problems. But but
clearly the problem is is the is the
temptation of our daily lives for
putting our mitochondria at risk. There
we go.
>> We We are still paleolithic man living
in a totally different environment and
we have an obesity epidemic. That's I
say obesity is evolution in action.
Those genes that allowed us to survive
these horrible droughts and and uh
famines and all this kind of stuff. We
are supremely metabolically designed to
store energy because if if we did not
have the capacity to store energy, you
and I would not exist on the planet
today.
>> No. So now we take that same highly
precise body and put it immersed in all
kinds of highly processed carbs wherever
you look in drinks in food and of course
and you don't exercise and the next
thing you know you're obese and you're
at risk for cancer, diabetes,
cardiovascular disease, dementia.
>> Yes,
it's it's very understandable. But
without an understanding of evolutionary
biology, which is unfortunate uh an
affliction of the 90% of people in the
medical field, you end you end up with
this nonsense stuff that doesn't make
any sense.
>> I think you're right. I think you're
right. and and and so as we're moving
from prevention to therapeutic
strategies, one of the first things that
that went into my mind as you began
talking about Warberg on the glucose
side and then your work on the glutamine
side. Okay. I think about two extreme
kinds of diets and I'll let you speak
for yourself, but I just wanted to get
your take on this. I talk to cancer
patients all day every day and there are
those who are juicing all the time and
boy the vegetables and the fruits it's
got to be great and the amount of sugar
is astonishing that they're taking in.
And then on the other side there's the
carnivore types with just nothing but
meat, nothing but eggs, protein, protein
protein. And because I'm less up on the
ideas around the glutamine fermentation,
I wonder first about protein intake. A
classic ketogenic diet really limits
protein, but I'm wondering first of all,
can you talk a little bit about protein
intake when somebody does have an active
diagnosis?
>> Well, that's why we use the GKI, the
glucose ketone index, because I mean, I
did it on myself. I ate ribeye steaks
and bacon and eggs and hamburgers mixed
hamburger meat mixed in with eggs. I did
the whole thing for about a week and I
and I got my GKI down to about 10 in
five days. If you get 2.0, if you're in
10, you're in a prevention zone. But if
you want to kill cancer cells and manage
chronic diseases, you should get down
about 2.0 or below, which below, which
is which can be a real challenge. But I
made a mistake in eating too much of the
meat.
>> You know, you're hungry. You know, I you
have a tomahawk ribeye with with one
spear of asparagus and uh and it's
really delicious. You pour you pour
butter on top of it.
>> Yep.
>> Or sauce bernese. It's all egg yolks and
fat.
>> You bet. And then you measure your GKI
and see what it is. And I said, "If I do
it again, listen, if I had cancer, I
know what to do." But but and you become
a hell of a lot more motivated than when
you're just playing around with it.
>> It's the truth that changes. Talk to a
cancer patient who knows this and who's
doing it right and you will see what
inspiration is.
>> Yeah. Right. Yeah. I mean, when you know
your is on the line, you'd be surprised
how smart you become in a short period
of time.
>> No kidding. No kidding. You're right.
And so and so that's that's the one
side. And then you've got the juicers.
>> Well, I don't know to what to say about
the juicers. If you're throwing a lot of
glucose into the system, I don't see how
that could possibly be healing
>> when the tumor cell when the tumor cell
needs the sugar.
>> So, you know, we have to look at it long
term as well. And then, you know, we
don't throw out all parts of standard of
care. What what we're seeing in our
clinics in Istanbul, Turkey, is a
combination of ketogenic metabolic
therapy with lowd dose chemo.
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah. When you're in nutritional ketosis
where your glucose is low and your
ketones are elevated and you're in the
in the three to 230 that that range, you
can take a very small dose of
chemotherapy, even less than half of
what they would normally give you. And
boy, it just blows the hell out of these
tumor cells because because they're
already vulnerable now. You're putting
them on a a life support system.
>> That's right. By taking they're
starving.
>> They're starving and they're going to
die and they are dying. And then you
throw in a tiny amount of chemo and the
next thing you know it's history for
these tumor cells and we're getting
results on pancreatic cancer. Three and
four three and five years of survival.
>> Goodness. Yeah. It's unbelievable. But
you know uh nobody's doing this.
>> No. There's there's nobody there's no
trial anywhere in the world that we know
of. And we even wrote the protocols for
doing the trials. Nobody's doing it.
>> They're doing reduced glucose. They
might be doing glutamine targeting
without reducing glucose. They're not
doing the full package,
>> right?
>> And you got to do the full package
correctly. You need to know upfront what
that individual's blood work looks like.
How many other comorbidities does the
patient have when they're first
diagnosed with cancer? If they're
looking pretty healthy and they don't
have any coorbidities, then we can go
right in real quick. We put them on a
zero carb diet for 14 to 20 days, your
body gets started, gets acclimated to
this absence of glucose and then we do
water only fasting and then we hit them
with the parasite drugs.
>> Okay, good. I want to talk about that.
That's a big one.
>> Well, they're they target the glutamine
pathway,
>> the the Finnben, the MIB. Well, I only I
only tested uh uh Mbendazol. We haven't
tested Fenbendazol. Gotcha.
>> We have we have not tested Ivormectin,
but here's what I did. If you go and
look at parasites, a variet there's a
whole family of different kinds of
parasites, you find out that when when
they're occupying tissue in their in
their resting state or existing state
rather than proliferation for
reproduction, they're using
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation. Great.
Here we go. Just as the cancer cells are
astonishing.
>> So, yeah, but there you got to hit you
got to hit the glucose and glutamine
with the parasite medication. And you
know, we have Don 60 deoxy norucine
which is really powerful, but it does
damage to your gut. So, we've got to
figure out ways to monitor
at such a on the cheap no minimal
toxicity. What are you talking about
here?
>> It's astonishing. And this is I won't I
won't get conspiratorial. The thing that
I was wanting to get your opinion on
fasting whenever we're talking about
pure water fasting for a period of time,
do you have first a recommendation?
Those of us who have no diagnosis, any
recommendation about how often and how
long we should fast just for prevention
first of all?
>> Yeah, you know, I can't make any kind of
recommendations. Okay. It's based on the
person, the age, the sex, the general
health. All of these things have to be
taken into consideration when when
moving someone into these conditions. I
can tell you from personal experience,
going cold turkey and doing water
fasting ain't easy.
>> Nope.
>> And it's it's a turnoff. Can you please
give me the highdose chemo? Thank you.
>> It's I'll tell you it it can be tough.
there are sort of chronic fasers and
they've sort of gotten used to that
whole experience. But when you're going
into uh the therapy model and I want to
ask you and we'll come we'll bring it in
for a landing in just a moment but you
talk about something called press pulse
strategy. Could you describe that just a
little bit for those who have never
heard this? Well, it's a concept that I
picked up from the the field of
paleobiology
from Arens and Wes published a paper and
these paleobiologists looking at events
in our the history of our planet with
mass extinctions of organisms. We've had
these mass extinctions, you know,
hundreds of millions of years ago. We've
had mass extinctions and the question is
it was always a combination of a chronic
stress weeding out weak members of the
societies of organisms that existed at
that time. Uh, but it got rid of the
weak, but not all. The the strong and
the tough were able to survive. And then
you have a pulse like a meteor or a
series of volcanoes going off and that
was it. That was it.
It was a complete extermination of
every. So I I just took the same
concept. I said, "How do we get rid of
cancer?" So we can use the same concept.
Great. Like that idea. It's so good.
>> It's okay.
>> Again, it's evolutionary biology.
Otherwise, you don't know what the hell
you're doing. What is press in in this
paradigm?
>> Press we can hold glucose down because
we did we evolved to be in a glucose
restricted environment. We didn't have
delicate tessins and doughnut shops on
every corner. So our ancestors were
always in a state of of low glucose and
elevated ketones. So that's
>> right
>> not not because they wanted to be in
that state. They had no choice.
>> I mean you throw in there hot pizza.
>> It wasn't willpower.
You throw in a hot pizza to those
caveman. You see what happens, right?
>> You better believe it.
>> They kill each other for a bite of the
pizza.
>> You know it. You know it. That's the
press side. And then the pulse side.
>> Well, we have two presses.
>> Two presses.
>> We have the uh um ketogenic metabolic
therapy which lowers the blood sugar,
elevates the ketones.
>> And you can take ketone supplements like
Don Diagino talks about, right?
>> Boost the ketones up a little bit. Uh
but then we have exercise extremely
important. You can walk at what's lowers
blood sugar. The muscles will take
glucose out of the out of the
bloodstream and once the muscle takes
the glucose it does not share. This is
an evolutionarily concerned because
because if you're the muscles are
sharing their sugar with the brain and
other all of a sudden the lion comes and
you don't have the capability of running
away from the lion. That's true. That's
true.
So you need the muscle needs to keep the
glucose for a burst of quick action. The
brain will suck up whatever whatever
sugars hanging around. And the last guy
on the totem pole is the tumor cell.
>> There we go.
>> Even with gluconneogenesis,
you can't produce enough enough sugar to
keep those tumor cells alive.
>> That's that was the question.
Gluconneogenesis and again protein and
the transformation. Yeah. So you're just
you're just marginalizing this poor
tumor cell. You feel bad for them in
their existence. You know there you have
to feel like these poor are suffering
and the rest of your body is getting
healthier and healthier.
>> There we go.
>> We go.
>> Beautiful.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So and then you come in with
the glutamine targeting drugs and
pulsing because if you're too
aggressive, you can harm your gut and
the very cells, the immune cells that
are needed for picking up the dead tumor
cells are your immune system. So you
don't want to paralyze them with a
pressing of the glutamine. And the other
thing that we have shown and others, the
metastatic cancer cell, the cell that
metastasizes and spreads through your
body is a hybrid between a cancer cell
and a macrofage part of our immune
system.
>> Interesting.
>> So yeah, they fuse. There's a fusagen.
There's a lot of people who know about
this, but everybody knows about except
national cancer institute.
>> The experts.
>> Yeah, the experts, right? That's why we
have 1,700 people a day dying from these
experts. You got to go back to look at
the dead people. They're all piling up,
right? Because
>> boy, I know because the academic and
pharmaceutical companies have no clue
what they were talking about here.
>> And if they do have a clue, they try to
ignore it because it's too unsettling to
the to the establishment. And that's
their personal their personal
misfortune. But it's but it's also
impacting negatively on the on the
people. And I feel so bad because I see
all these people suffering and
needlessly. It's just a tragedy of of
monumental proportions. We don't have to
have that. But but the the bottom line
is that you you have these metastatic
cancer cells. Now macrofasages are an
extremely powerful glucose glutamine
consumer. Glutamine a fuel for the
immune system. So you have a cell of the
immune system like a macrofage or or a
neutrfil a luccoite fusing with a tumor
cell and now you have a rogue macrofage
already genetically programmed to spread
throughout the body because
>> when you have a wound or something like
that the monocytes come pouring out of
the bloodstream and go into the wound to
heal the wound. They throw growth
factors and cytoines and do all this
stuff and when the wound is not healing
they fuse together uh to even facilitate
greater wound healing. But if the cancer
cell is throwing out lactic acid like a
wound, then the the the immune cells are
behaving as they're genetically
programmed, but in but in an abnormal
context.
>> Oh. So then you all of a sudden you get
this fuse hybridization and then these
things spread all through your body and
everybody's poisoning your body and
shooting radiation and all this crazy
and and these things can't live without
glucose and glutamine. What the hell?
>> And so it just seems reasonable. press
and pulse. This combination and this is
what you are seeing is really beginning
to change the dynamic of how the
precious few patients who have been
exposed to this and maybe they found a
clinician that can hold their hands but
there are so few and oh how I want
everybody to know about this.
>> Yeah. Well, you have to know about it
like I'm speaking. But when you start
seeing the science as we have published
the mechanisms and the pathways and the
evidence in pre-clinical studies, don't
forget I do all my work with
pre-clinical studies,
>> right?
>> And then I then I have an army of
physicians that that are out there that
want to use this stuff. And then you got
to try to reign in the physicians
because they all want to throw
everything at the you will a little of
this work, a little bourberine here, you
know, a little of this there. And and I
said, "Yeah, we'll get to the hard. If
you want to throw something at the
cancer patient, like a supplement or
anything, just make sure it doesn't harm
them because you can get benefit from a
placebo effect by doing one of these
things, but as long as you're pulling
holding the restriction of the glucose
and the glutamine and then you can use
small dose doses of radiation or chemo,
you can use imunotherapies. Oh, you hear
them advertised every night on TV.
Wonderful it is."
>> And they spend more time telling you how
it's going to kill you than how it's
going to save you.
>> You betcha. And the reason why it it
doesn't work for a lot of people is
because the acidification of the tumor
micro environment blocks the ability of
the imunotherapy to work. And the
acidification is the waste products of
glucose and glutamine.
So we know why these things don't work.
We know we know more about this problem
than anybody else on the planet. And we
have the evidence to support both
scientifically and clinically the
evidence to support what we're saying.
The problem is when the NIH tells you
it's a genetic disease, you can't you
can't think another way. And the
academics are getting millions of
dollars in research grants doing the
same crazy that hasn't worked for 50
years.
>> So the pharmaceutical companies are
making handover fist on drugs that
>> they have no interest, right?
>> It's a it's a mess up and down the whole
system.
>> Oh my god. But if you want to live and
you want to be healthy, do metabolic
therapy and have somebody that really
understands what's going on. Well, and
>> and you go down to the clinics that go
to the top medical schools and ask them,
"Do you know anything about targeting
glucose?" Never heard of it. Eat as much
sugar as you want. Glucose nuts.
>> Yes. Almost their strategy almost
ensures the chronicity of the disease.
>> Yes. I don't think they're doing it
purposefully.
>> Of course not. They're they're doing it
out of lack of knowledge and training
that never brought them to understand
what we're talking about.
>> Well, if more and more of them could be
turned on to the work of you and your
colleagues, I think that we could have a
revolution.
Oh, if that day could come, it wouldn't
be too soon.
>> Well, you have the people on your side.
>> You sure do, man. You do. You've got the
folks. You have the you have the people
that really would want to benefit
establishment. The system is not on your
side.
>> That's it. It's the system. That's
exactly right. Well, I got to tell you,
Dr. Seaff Freed, what you have devoted
your life to is well worthwhile. Not
everybody can say that. And I just say,
God bless you. Keep up the good work. I
can't wait to see the continued studies
that you and your colleagues will
publish. Do you see what can you
envision what's next in the uh in the
metabolic terrain concept?
>> Yeah. Um and also it's important to
mention that the research that we do is
all supported by private foundations and
philanthropy.
>> Goodness gracious.
>> Yeah. I mean I my career earlier on was
supported by NIH grants all the way up
for for decades. But then when you start
doing this kind of stuff that really is
not part of the it's not part of the
mainstream
>> not part of not part of the script.
>> It'll be the way it'll be the new
standard of care.
>> Uhhuh.
>> But getting there is like walking on hot
rocks. That
>> I believe it.
>> But so we have people that that support
our foundations and there are some
people who say I don't care if I need if
I make money on this. In other words,
philanthropy without strings. They just
want to see they just want to see people
alive and healthy.
>> And and the and and what we're doing now
is we're trying to find a tumor cell
that's not dependent on glucose and
glutamine.
>> We haven't found any yet. So
>> still looking. Huh. Still looking.
>> We're looking at lung, colon, breast,
pancreatic, you name it.
>> What about liquid tumors? The leukemas
and lymphas.
>> They're blowing out lactic acid and
suinic acid.
>> Wow.
>> And they collect lipid drops. We we the
lipid here's the crazy thing. The people
in the cancer field say, "Oh, they're
using lipids like crazy because they've
got all these lipid droplets in the
cytoplasm."
>> Yeah.
>> The reason the lipid droplets are there
is because they mitochondria can't
metabolize the fatty acids. So you you
put them in lipid drops as a protective
mechanism.
>> Oh.
>> Because if you start burning fatty
acids, you're going to produce ROS and
kill the damn tumor cell.
>> It's just it folds on itself.
>> Astonishing. Astonishing. And 90% of the
papers in the top science and nature
journals are saying cancer cells use
fatty acids readily because look at all
the stored fatty acids in the cytoplasm.
>> Little did they know
they're there so the tumor doesn't die.
>> You are right that has been cited over
and over again in response
>> kind of pushing back on the idea
>> of keto. And so I think yeah
>> it's just it's just amazing. But, you
know, as we say, it's the the journey is
worth the fight. The journey is is what
keeps us going because we know we're
right. And we want to have people not
dying. I mean, these poor people coming
out of these cancer clinics, they're
bald and they've got mucositis. They've
got all kinds of stuff. I never found a
cancer cell in the hair follicle of
anybody.
>> Why are you losing your hair? What are
you trying? There's cancer cells in your
hair. I I don't I don't know why you're
going bald,
>> but but uh they shouldn't have to lose
hair. They shouldn't have to have all
these adverse side effects and killing
cancer cells very strategically.
Nobody. And then you run down. You hear
people hear what I say. They run down to
their oncologists at the top MD
Anderson, Sloan Kettering, wherever they
go, and they get slapped down. They get
angry. They throw them out. It's just
>> absolutely
>> it's a tragedy. We talk to cancer
patients all the time and uh there it's
it's almost as if there are two types of
patients. The ones who know better than
to say certain things and then those
that are going to be berated because
they don't know any better. Well, I I
feel bad because you know even if I were
to have cancer, I have my colleagues
even though I designed the experiments
and tested everything. You still want
somebody to talk to.
>> You do. You want a clinician who who can
help you negotiate some of these things
that you might not have heard about and
that he has and therefore um you know
walk you through the process and give
you some level of encouragement and
monitoring and you're monitoring at the
same time with your GKI and you're
taking the dosage of uh of medication
that will target the glutamine and and
you want to make sure those dosages and
timings are right for you and your body
and your
>> and and and you want that person to know
that and help you. And I would talk to
my friends next door about this.
>> Yes.
>> And that unfortunately I have all this
information and know what to do if I had
to do it. But most 99% of cancer
patients don't have this.
>> No. No. Absolutely not. And that's why
it's so important to get this message
out on platforms where the lay public. I
love talking to cancer patients and they
bring up your name. I love it when they
have found you somehow on podcasts, some
of your speeches. This is terrific. We
are humbled and we're grateful that you
would be on this podcast. We hope to
have you back someday. Boy, oh boy. Keep
it up. Keep it up, professor. Thank you
for what you do.
>> Well, we we will we won't stop until we
start seeing the consistent drop in
cancer deaths year in and year out.
>> Yes.
>> When you the needle needs to move. Well,
just since we've started this podcast,
about 70 70 people have died
>> of cancer.
>> That's right. That's
>> it's high time we get that closer to
zero. And uh we're not going to do it if
we keep chasing the somatic genetic
model. It's just faulty. It doesn't
work. Here's where we need to be. And I
thank you for taking the arrows because
I know you're taking a lot. But thank
you for taking the arrows. Brother,
might does make or right does make
might.
>> Yeah. Well, thank you very much.
Pleasure.
>> Thank you, professor. Thank you for
watching Ultralife Today.
Well, that was a power-p packed episode.
I hope you enjoyed it. Dr. Thomas Seaff
Freed really is a legend. I put him on
the Mount Rushmore of most important
cancer researchers of our time right
there with Dr. Otto Warberg and others.
Uh so glad that you uh not only watch
but we thank you doubly for telling your
friends. Please pass this along. Please
subscribe. Uh please like uh these
episodes. We're going to do more like
this very very shortly. We are grateful
that you are joining us for each episode
of Ultralife today.